The airplane encountered muddy terrain and collapsed the nose landing gear during a landing 
overrun.  The pilot reported that as he approached his destination he prepared for an 
instrument approach to the airport.  The pilot descended via the approach to an altitude of 
about 800 feet, at which point he was able to identify the runway environment and transition 
to a visual approach.  Throughout the approach, the pilot reported encountering moderate rain 
and restricted visibility.  The airplane's speed during the approach was about 120 knots, 
varying slightly with configuration changes required during descents and transitions to level 
flight.  During landing, the airplane touched down hard, about halfway down the 4,995-foot-
long runway, and bounced twice.  The pilot reported that once established in the landing 
rollout, he applied full brakes and configured the propellers in full reverse thrust, attempting to 
stop before the end of the runway.  The pilot said that although the runway was absent of 
noticeable standing water, the moderate rain and wet conditions hindered braking 
effectiveness.  The airplane continued off the runway and impacted terrain resulting in the 
collapse of the nose gear.  The pilot was unable to remember the speed at which the airplane 
touched, but opined that it was about 100 knots, the normal touchdown speed for the airplane.  
The Airplane Flying Handbook states that "hydroplaning can have serious adverse effects on 
ground controllability and braking efficiency" and recommends that "touchdown speed should 
be as slow as possible consistent with safety."
the pilot's misjudged speed and distance, which resulted in a failure to attain the proper 
touchdown point and a subsequent overrun of the runway.  A factor in the accident was limited 
braking effectiveness resulting from the wet runway condition.
